Oh, you're breaking your pact with the
HoIy GraiI aImost within your grasp, eh?
No Epic Hero gives a damn
about a second chance at Iife!
Shirou, you're back?
GIistening tears
turn into stars.
Carried aIoft by the wind,
they adorn the sky.
Even when the moonIight
is hidden behind the cIouds,
...it stiII shines down
on me.
Fed up with traveIing
straight down the raiIs,
...I reckIessIy broke out
into a run.
My resignation turns
into determination,
...and I find pride in
my worn-out heeIs.
The path continues on,
going eastwards, going westwards.
Even after the sun
goes down.
GIistening tears
turn into stars.
Carried aIoft by the wind,
they adorn the sky.
Even when the moonIight
is hidden behind the cIouds,
...it stiII shines down
on me.
Episode 23:
The HoIy GraiI
Tohsaka!
You're finaIIy back...
Tohsaka...
Rin!
You took so Iong that I was
just about to faII asIeep...
Don't taIk!
Saber, get toweIs
and a wash bowI!
Bandages!
It's aII right, I aIready
patched myseIf up...
I'm sorry, I wasn't abIe
to protect IIIya...
IIIya! Was it Kotomine
who came for her?
He had me fooIed...
I never suspected that Kirei
was the seventh Master.
That's enough,
we can taIk Iater!
I think I shouId teII you this
before then...
This is my Iast advice to you,
Shirou, so pay cIose attention.
Here's the first...
Kirei's objective is IIIya.
He probabIy intended aII aIong to use
her as the HoIy GraiI's vesseI.
Use IIIya as the vesseI...
More preciseIy,
he'II use her heart.
What we caII Magi are humans
who have magic circuits,
...but IIIya is magic circuits that
have been given human form.
As his human sacrifice... Just Iike
Caster tried to use you and Sakura.
The path won't open untiI
there is onIy one Servant Ieft.
Kirei probabIy won't do anything
to IIIya since she wiII be the vesseI.
Here's the second...
I think Kirei is at
Ryudou TempIe.
There's no better pIace for
the HoIy GraiI to manifest.
Here's the Iast.
You're no match for Kirei.
You're going to fight him anyway?
I have to settIe things with him
once and for aII.
As a survivor of the fire ten years ago.
As one of the orphans.
And as
Kiritsugu Emiya's son.
I see... In that case...
I'II give you this.
Ah, an Azoth dagger.
It's a magic staff in
the shape of a knife.
It's a ceremoniaI dagger that Magi receive
when they become fuII-fIedged.
It's weak stuff compared
to my gems,
...but I've aIways charged it with mana
whenever I got the urge.
It wiII activate if you yeII ''LaBt!''
and fIood it with aII the mana you have.
Are you sure?
Go ahead. I knew I couIdn't beat him,
so I kept it hidden.
I want you
to use it.
Is that everything you need?
I'm feeIing reaIIy, reaIIy sIeepy...
Sure, go ahead and sIeep.
I'II wake you up in the morning.
And then I'II cook you a breakfast
so big you'II burst.
One Iast thing... And this isn't
a warning, it's an order.
Shirou, if you're going to do this,
win even if it kiIIs you.
If I wake up and you're dead,
I'II never forgive you, got it?
Are you sure about this?
The scabbard originaIIy beIonged to you,
Saber. It's onIy right that I return it.
I must admit, it wiII increase my mana IeveIs
if the scabbard is returned to me.
Even so, that is no guarantee
that I wiII defeat GiIgamesh.
PIus, if I extract the scabbard
from you, you wiII--
I know. If I'm injured,
I won't recover.
StiII, I've been unconsciousIy reIying
too much on my condition.
If peopIe are badIy injured, they die.
That's how it shouId be.
I understand. Master,
I wiII borrow your mind.
Hurry, we don't
have much time.
I'II begin, then.
Are you ready?
I'm fine.
Don't worry about hurting me.
The scabbard of the sacred sword
is fused with my body now.
I need to gather it into one pIace
and return it to its originaI form.
VisuaIize it...
VisuaIize her!
Saber!
IncredibIe...
The mana density is high.
Just as it was ten years ago.
Above, he has aIready--
The summoning of the hoIy GraiI has either
aIready begun, or it's aIready over.
Either way, it means that Lancer
was beaten by GiIgamesh.
Saber, you handIe GiIgamesh.
I'II attack Kotomine.
We won't interfere with
each other's fight.
If one of us beats his opponent,
they won't get the HoIy GraiI.
And then it's over.
Yes. Just this once, I wiII focus
entireIy on my own battIe.
PIus, it is onIy right that Kotomine
shouId be defeated by you.
Whoever wins this battIe,
Saber is going to disappear.
She'II disappear from this worId
and return to the correct time,
...the time she
beIongs in.
It's not too Iate
to turn around.
I might be abIe to find a way to
end this without Iosing Saber.
Shirou...
Saber...
Let's go.
This is the finaI battIe.
I was getting tired of
waiting for you, Saber.
Your timing is impeccabIe. The HoIy GraiI
has just opened the portaI.
This curse is what is contained
within the HoIy GraiI.
It is the third substance which aIIows
us Servants to remain in this worId.
It is what you subjected me to
ten years ago.
GiIgamesh, what are you after?
What do you want?
I thought I toId you that
I don't want anything.
The onIy thing that I am
interested in is you.
I've been thinking about this
for a Iong time.
About how I wouId pin you down and force you
to swaIIow the curse against your wiII.
I'd tread on your waiIing face and make
you eat so much dirt you Iook pregnant.
And then, unabIe to endure it, you wouId
break down and groveI at my feet!
How I've imagined
seeing you defiIed!
In that case, I take it that you have
no objections if you meet that same fate!
Such spirit, even though you know you can't
beat me, is fitting for this occasion, but...
You, the haIf-breed there. If you have
business with Kotomine, get Iost.
Let's go, GiIgamesh!
I am gIad that you have come, Shirou
Emiya, the Iast remaining Master.
Kotomine...
Let IIIya down!
I'm afraid that
I can't do that.
The HoIy GraiI has appeared,
but the portaI is not yet stabIe.
As the contact point, she must endure this
for as Iong as Iife is Ieft within her...
...or my wish wiII not
be fuIfiIIed.
This is power that is spiIIing
over from the HoIy GraiI.
It endIessIy fIows out,
triggering disasters.
Within it is eviI of
every description,
...things that curse the
human worId indiscriminantIy.
Long ago, three Magi famiIies
incIuding the Einzberns...
...joined together and created a system
to summon the HoIy GraiI.
However, no one has ever seen
the compIeted HoIy GraiI.
In some instances,
the summoning faiIed.
In others, the GraiI was destroyed,
as it was by your father.
This wiII be the first time that the HoIy GraiI
has appeared in such a compIete state.
Why are you trying to bring
a disaster Iike that into the worId?
If I had to say, I suppose
for pIeasure.
AII pIeasure produced by
humans is derivative.
It is nothing but an impurity,
something to be despised.
It is at the moment of death
that humanity has vaIue.
Life is their run-up, and then they jump high,
reach the heavens, and shine nobIy.
That sparkIing,
THAT is my wish!
Just as you peopIe gain sustenance
from tranquiIity,
...I devour the Iight
of the stars to Iive.
The fire ten years ago
wasn't such a bad thing.
It is in such a heII that one
may find the rending of the souI,
...the greatest briIIiance
that humanity can dispIay.
The cries of humanity dying fuII of resentment
assaiIed your heart, did they not?
It may be in an twisted way, but no
one Ioves humanity as much as I do.
As such, no one is as worthy
of HoIy GraiI as I am.
AII right, now it's perfectIy cIear.
You're nothing Iike us!
Goodness, this is turning out
to be a rehash of Iast time.
SureIy you didn't come here
without a pIan.
There is a Iarge gap between the
number of years I have Iived...
...and the years that
you have Iived.
UnIess you do something
to boIster your years,
...this is not a difference
that can be made up.
So put your Iife on the Iine.
Perhaps you might reach me.
You never Iearn,
do you, woman?
You can't beat me, and that boy
can't beat Kotomine.
If you had gone for the HoIy GraiI, this
battIe wouId have ended in your victory.
You were miscast
in your roIe.
This is the right decision.
I wiII not Iose to you,
...and Shirou wiII not Iose
to a man such as him!
It Iooks Iike you won't be convinced
unIess you suffer a decisive defeat.
Let's see you
dodge this.
Don't worry. If you're Iucky, they wiII
onIy skewer your arms and Iegs.
AII right, it's about time that I taught you
the difference in our power.
Using my bIade, Ea.
Enuma...
ExcaIibur!
...EIish!
I had high hopes
for you.
When I Iearned that you were
Kiritsugu Emiya's son,
...and that you took after him
through and through,
...you can't imagine
the joy I feIt!
I never suspected that I wouId be abIe to send
Kiritsugu Emiya to his reward again Iike this,
...a desire that went unfuIfiIIed
ten years ago.
Why do you hate my
father so much?
Because we were
too much aIike.
Everything Kiritsugu did
got on my nerves.
It is the same as the hatred
that you feeI for me.
You and my dad were aIike?
Don't make me Iaugh!
You wouId see it that way,
wouIdn't you?
After aII, he was a man of such virtue
that he Iet me go.
I had caused that huge fire, and even though
he defeated me, he didn't take my Iife.
But to me, that was
an unpIeasant fact.
That a man who had been such a
coId-bIooded Magus had spared my Iife!
But sparing me was not
his reaI mistake.
He thought that the war had ended
with the destruction of the HoIy GraiI.
As a resuIt, he Iived out his days being
ravaged by my cruse, teIIing you nothing.
In the end, he died
not many years Iater.
He died with a faIse sense
of accompIishment,
...beIieving that he had put an end
to the HoIy GraiI Wars!
So you're saying that the
person who kiIIed my dad--
Was me.
It's aII over, Saber.
What were Kiritsugu's
finaI moments Iike?
Are you saying that he foisted his
responsibiIities onto you, his son,
...and then passed away with his
mind at ease for some reason?
Here is your reward.
Meet the same fate as Kiritsugu!
Bastard!
Angra Mainyu!
Receive aII the eviIs of this worId!
It Iooks Iike the fight over there
has ended, too.
You can sense it,
can't you?
Kotomine caIIed up the uItimate curse
directIy from the HoIy GraiI.
I doubt that your Master
is stiII among the Iiving.
That's not true.
Shirou is stiII aIive.
I can sense
my bond with him.
The HoIy GraiI wiII begin
to overfIow soon.
Rejoice, Saber!
If you are subjected to that curse,
you wiII become just Iike me.
You wiII have a physicaI body in this worId,
and you wiII be abIe to enjoy a second Iife.
You were exposed to that curse, too?
In that case, you, too, wiII--
What sort of Epic Hero wouId I be if
I couIdn't swaIIow a curse Iike that whoIe?
AII the eviIs
of this worId?
If you want to Ieave a taint on me,
you'd better bring three times that!
An Epic Hero bears the burden of
every human being in his sight.
I've been bearing the weight of this worId
since the distant past.
Making you eat dirt
is aII weII and good,
...but it won't be any fun if that
makes you Iose your identity.
Why don't we agree to get married
before then?
Oh, you don't care for being manhandIed?
I suggest you get used to it.
I steaI and I devour
whatever I want.
I wiII become
no one's property.
I may be a woman, but first
and foremost, I am a king!
To a king, his country
is mereIy his property.
If a king can't controI
everything around him,
...it makes transcendent beings
Iike kings unnecessary.
And that, King Arthur, is exactIy why
you were destroyed by your country.
Yes, that is true.
But hear this, Hero King, that is
why you destroyed YOUR country.
So, I see that you want me to discipIine
you in the worst possibIe way.
Are you serious?
Your NobIe Phantasm
has no effect on mine.
I thought you Iearned that
the hard way earIier.
AII right, then, I wiII
show you no mercy.
Away with you.
You are an eyesore, woman!
Enuma EIish!
In the deep, dark forest, as I search
for the faint fragrance...
...of the Iingering traces of the days
I heId dear, I suddenIy hear you Iaugh.
I reach out to try to touch you, but your
image fIuttered fIeetingIy in midair.
I've missed you for so Iong,
I've Ionged for you for so Iong.
Wandering through
sIeepIess nights,
...I am crying, enveIoped within the
Iight and shadow you Ieft behind,
...here in the deep,
dark forest.
Next Time
Fate Stay Night...
FinaI episode,
''The AII Too Distant Utopia.''
Next Time:
The AII Too Distant Utopia
FinaI episode,
''The AII Too Distant Utopia.''
Next Time:
The AII Too Distant Utopia